well Maran Bashar is Al jaaz senior
political analyst he joins us by Skype
from Paris Maran is the purpose of these
uh repeated rounds of talks more about
maintaining the appearance of a
process it was for many many
months but by its nature uh Mariam
negotiations are the continuation of War
through diplomatic
means by their very nature they are a
continuation of War so whatever shapes
the negotiations are the same factors
that shape the war and whatever
influences the war in terms of the
humanitarian the balance of power or the
imbalance of power the geography and so
on so forth all of it influence the same
thing diplomacy so what we see here is
the continuation of War by other means
and I think in a
sense the question is will they reach a
deal or not because this has been going
on for six months now both the war and
the
negotiations the question is whether
both parties understand and I'm here
talking about both Israel and Hamas if
both parties understand that they cannot
achieve in diplomacy what they couldn't
achieve in
war in other words they're not going to
the Israelis are not going to get the
captives back free of charge and Hamas
is not going to get Gaza free of Israeli
CH soldiers free of charge I mean this
is just the hard truth I'm not being you
know in any which way soft or emotional
about this I'm not in any which way
trying to beautify this but this is
exactly what it is everyone else who
thinks otherwise is being
delusional war is decided by power
diplomacy is also decided through
Power how are threats by Israel's
adversaries uh Iran and Hezbollah to
respond to recent developments affecting
these
talks this is this is absolutely the
right question at the right time right
so since diplomacy is the continuation
of War by other means we have a whole
new factor that entered the war sphere
and that is a major Threat by two
Regional Powers one could say Iran and
hisbah in retaliation to a preemptive to
a provocative act by the Israelis in the
violation of Lebanese and Iranian
sovereignty the threat of widening the
war that is really bringing in the
United unit States or drawing in the
United States is definitely a factor in
the negotiations for the Israelis it
doesn't matter as much and I'm here
Israelis I mean the Israeli government
because they are crazy
apocalyptical you know uh dangerous
Reckless bunch of fascists and Fanatics
for the United States it's different the
United States after its own experience
in Afghanistan and
Iraq does not want to be drawn to
another Regional War because of some uh
you know Reckless politician in Israel
decides that he wants a wider war and
hence the United States is pushing for a
deal because of the threat of war and I
think that works in favor of a deal more
than it
doesn't but I suppose it may all it's
probably likely to come to nothing as we
have seen in uh previous rounds of talks
if the main
obstacle uh remains to be the the
Israeli Prime Minister who is at odds
with members of his own negotiating
team that's through this has been the
case for the past six months not only
that he is at outs with his negotiations
team is just he thinks a fire is not his
interest or to the interest of his
government because they thrive on war
they thrive on war but let's not forget
that they are totally dependent on the
United States now the United States to
be clear is not not a mediator only it's
partner Israel's partner first mediator
second and this mediator the United
States has been indispensable for
Israel's war Israel cannot survive in
this Middle East this Israel cannot
survive in this Middle East without the
United States there's absolutely no more
doubt about this whatsoever right so
being so dependent in the United States
and although it has not listened to the
United States for so long when it comes
to the end of the Biden presidency when
it when it when it relates to Simply
signing the damn deal that they could
basically walk walk away from it after
the first phase I think there is enough
American pressure today it seems to me
for Biden uh sorry for Netanyahu to be
able to sign off on it he apparently has
gotten guarantees from the United States
that he could walk away after the first
phase if he's not
satisfied Hamas of course got
contradictory guarantees that said we
will definitely move on from the first
phase to the second phase that's what a
mediator like the United States tends to
do and hence we could have a ceasefire
agreement but that does not mean we can
have long-term peace in Israel
Palestine all right thank you for now Al
jaer senior political anst Maran Bashar
joining us
there make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz